# DAPNET Web
The default DAPNET Web-frontend.
Written in the [Vue.js](https://github.com/vuejs/vue) framework and built using [webpack](https://github.com/webpack/webpack).

For further information visit this project's [wiki](https://github.com/DecentralizedAmateurPagingNetwork/Web/wiki).

## Setup using Docker
1. Make sure you have a current installation of Docker on your server
2. Prepare a directory to hold your configuration (e.g. `/srv/dapnet/web/config`) and copy the following files from this repository there:
    * `src/store/defaultUrls.json.example` to `defaultUrls.json` and change the default url-settings
    * `src/store/defaultText.json.example` to `defaultText.json` and change the default custom text (displayed on the home page)
    * `src/store/defaultMap.json.example` to `defaultMap.json` and change the default map-settings
3. Pull the image and run the container while mapping the webserver to port `8080`: `docker run -v /srv/dapnet/web/config:/app/src/store:ro -p 8080:80 dapnet/web`
4. You are done. The container will build the website, update the coverage data and publish the website on the specified port

## Setup manually
If you do not want to use the all-in-one Docker image, you are free to use the manual installation guide below.

### Requirements
* Installed packages: `git`, `nodejs`, `npm`, `wget`
	* You should install a current Node.js version (e.g. v6 LTS) by following [these instructions](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/)
	* This process will also install the `npm` binary
	* Be advised that most linux distributions ship an older version of Node.js which will not work correctly
* A running webserver (e.g. apache2, nginx, lighttpd, etc.)
* A running [DAPNET Core](https://github.com/DecentralizedAmateurPagingNetwork/Core) with a reachable REST-interface

### Installation
1. Download the repository: `git clone https://github.com/DecentralizedAmateurPagingNetwork/Web.git`
2. Checkout a specific tag: `git checkout tags/v2.0.0`
	* This is highly recommended for improved stability and a consistent user experience
	* Also you should use the [latest tag](https://github.com/DecentralizedAmateurPagingNetwork/Web/releases)
3. Copy `src/store/defaultUrls.json.example` to `src/store/defaultUrls.json` and change the default url-settings
4. Copy `src/store/defaultText.json.example` to `src/store/defaultText.json` and change the default custom text (displayed on the home page)
	* You may use HTML markup here
5. Copy `src/store/defaultMap.json.example` to `src/store/defaultMap.json` and change the default map-settings
6. (Optional) Edit `static/js/custom.js` and insert your custom javascript code (e.g. a Piwik tracking code)
	* You may use jQuery here
7. Download the latest coverage-data from the central server and setup a cronjob to update these files regularly
	* Create directory `static/coverage/`
	* Run initial download of coverage-files: `cd static/coverage && wget -m -nv -nH -nd -np -R "index.html*" -e robots=off http://web.db0sda.ampr.org/dapnet-coverage/`
	* Put the following line into a cronjob, adapt the `PATH_WEB` variable and make sure it runs regularly
	```bash
	MAILTO=root
	PATH_WEB=/opt/dapnet/Web
    */5 * * * *    YOURUSERNAME    if [ ! -d $PATH_WEB/dist/assets/coverage ]; then mkdir $PATH_WEB/dist/assets/coverage; fi && wget -m -nv -nH -nd -np -R "index.html*" -e robots=off -P $PATH_WEB/dist/assets/coverage http://web.db0sda.ampr.org/dapnet-coverage/
	```
	* **Be aware:** this cronjob puts the latest coverage date directly into the `dist/assets/coverage/`-directory and thus overwrites the files generated by a previous `npm run build` command. It will not update the source-files in the `static/coverage/`-directory
8. Download all dependencies: `npm install`
9. Test your setup: `npm run dev`
	* Open your browser at `http://localhost:8081` and check that each of your customizations was successful
10. Generate the production build: `npm run build`
11. Copy your freshly generated files from `dist/` into your webserver's `htdocs/` directory
12. Done!

### Updating
Before updating make sure to read the changelog and to backup your customized files (see above)!

1. Update your local repository: `git fetch`
2. Run through step 2 of the installation process
	* Again you should use the [latest tag](https://github.com/DecentralizedAmateurPagingNetwork/Web/releases)
3. Run through steps 8. to 11. of the installation process
4. Done!
